~~TRY HACK ME~~

05/05/22

Networking concepts

	task 2:976746220

.1st network ::ARPANET-1960
.World Wide Web(WWW) creator is tim berners-lee :: 1989
.the Internet is made up of many small networks all joined together.
.These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting 
 these small networks are called public networks -- or the Internet!
 So, to recap, a network can be one of two types:
       1)A private network
       2)A public network
.IP address is a set of numbers that are divided into four octets. The value 
  of each octet will summarise to be the IP address of the device on the network.
.A public address is used to identify the device on the Internet, whereas a 
  private address is used to identify a device amongst other devices.
.Any data sent to the Internet from either of any devices will be identified by 
 the same public IP address. Public IP addresses are given by your Internet Service Provider (or ISP).
.As more and more devices become connected, it is becoming increasingly harder to get a public address
 that isn't already in use.
.IPv4 , which uses a numbering system of 2^32 IP addresses (4.29 billion)
.IPv6 , Supports up to 2^128 of IP addresses (340 trillion-plus), resolving the issues faced with IPv4
	, More efficient due to new methodologies

.MAC Adresses
	.Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found
	on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it 
	was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character 
	hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split 
	into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators.
	For example, a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six characters represent the company that made the network
	interface, and the last six is a unique number.

.PING or ICMP(packet internet grouping )
	.Ping is one of the most fundamental network tools available to us. Ping uses ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)
	 packets to determine the performance of a connection between devices.
	.The syntax to do a simple ping is ::ping IP address or website URL

.LAN(local area network) Networking
	.Star topology:
			     .The main premise of a star topology is that devices are individually connected
				via a central networking device such as a switch or hub. This topology is the 
				most commonly found today because of its reliability and scalability - despite the cost.
			     .Any information sent to a device in this topology is sent via the central device to 
				which it connects.
	.Bus Topology:
				.This type of connection relies upon a single connection which is known as a backbone cable.
	.Ring Topology:
				.The ring topology (also known as token topology) boasts some similarities. Devices such
				 as computers are connected directly to each other to form a loop, meaning that there is 
				 little cabling required and less dependence on dedicated hardware such as within a star topology. 
				.A ring topology works by sending data across the loop until it reaches the destined device.
				.using other devices along the loop to forward the data. Interestingly, a device will only
				 send received data from another device in this topology if it does not have any to send itself.
				 If the device happens to have data to send, it will send its own data first before sending
				 data from another device.
	.Switch:
				.Switches are dedicated devices within a network that are designed to aggregate multiple other
				 devices such as computers, printers, or any other networking-capable device using ethernet.
				.These various devices plug into a switch's port. Switches are usually found in larger networks
				 such as businesses, schools, or similar-sized networks, where there are many devices to connect
				 to the network.
				.Switches can connect a large number of devices by having ports of 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, and 64 for 
				 devices to plug into.
	.Router:
				.It's a router's job to connect networks and pass data between them. It does this by using routing 
				.Routing is the label given to the process of data travelling across networks. Routing involves 
				 creating a path between networks so that this data can be successfully delivered.
				.Routing is useful when devices are connected by many paths.
	.Subnet:
				.Subnetting is the term given to splitting up a network into smaller, miniature networks within itself.
				.Subnets use IP addresses in three different ways:
					Identify the network address
					Identify the host address
					Identify the default gateway
				.Subnetting provides a range of benefits, including:
					Efficiency
					Security
					Full control
				.32 bits are in a subnet mask

	.ARP(Address Resolution Protocol):
				.ARP protocol allows a device to associate its MAC address with an IP address on the network.
				.Each device on a network will keep a log of the MAC addresses associated with other devices.
				.the technology that is responsible for allowing devices to identify themselves on a network.
				.Each device within a network has a ledger to store information on, which is called a cache.
				 In the context of the ARP protocol, this cache stores the identifiers of other devices on the network.
				.In order to map these two identifiers together (IP address and MAC address), the ARP protocol sends two types of messages:
					ARP Request
					ARP Reply
06/05/22

	.DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol):
		.IP addresses can be assigned either manually, by entering them physically into a device, or automatically and most
		 commonly by using a DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) server.
		.dhcp Discover,dhcp Offer,Dhcp Request,Dhcp Ack
 
DNS(domain name system):
	.DNS (Domain Name System) provides a simple way for us to communicate with devices on the internet without remembering complex numbers.
	 Much like every house has a unique address for sending mail directly to it, every computer on the internet has its own unique address 
	 to communicate with it called an IP address.
	.An IP address looks like the following 104.26.10.229, 4 sets of digits ranging from 0 - 255 separated by a period. When you want to 
	 visit a website, it's not exactly convenient to remember this complicated set of numbers, and that's where DNS can help. So instead 
	 of remembering 104.26.10.229, you can remember tryhackme.com instead.

	.DNS record types:
		.A record
			These records resolve to IPv4 addresses, for example 104.26.10.229.
		.AAAA Record
			These records resolve to IPv6 addresses, for example 2606:4700:20::681a:be5
		.CNAME Record,MX Record,TXT Record

